The 1st child says it is scary.
The 2nd child says it is scary.
The 3rd child says it is scary.
The 4th child says it is scary.
The 5th child says it is scary.
The 6th child says it is scary.
The 7th child says it is scary.
The 8th child says it is scary.
The 9th child says it is scary.
The 10th child says it is scary.

The 11th child says it is scary.
The 12th child says it is scary.
The 13th child says it is scary.

Among 13 children there are scary children and
scared children and they are all they are. (It is
better that there is no other excuse.)

Of those it is fine to say that 1 child is scary.
Of those it is fine to say that 2 children are scary.
Of those it is fine to say that 2 children are scared.
Of those it is fine to say that 1 child is scared.

(For the road an opened one is apt.)
It does not matter if 13 children do not speed toward the way.

When my father is dozing by me I become my father and I become
my father’s father and even then my father is my father like my
father so why do I keep becoming my father’s father’s father’s…father
why must I jump over my father and why at last must I be acting
out myself and my father and my father’s father’s and my father’s
father’s father’s roles all at the same time staying alive


The one who fights is thus the one who hasn’t fought and the one
who fights has also been the one who doesn’t fight therefore if the
one who fights wants to see a fight then the one who hasn’t fought
seeing a fight or the one who doesn’t fight seeing a fight or the one
who hasn’t fought seeing no fight or the one who doesn’t fight seeing
no fight matters not


The square in    the square in the square in the square in the square.
The    square    circle    of    the square circular motion of the square circular motion.
The person who sees through the smell of the soap of the blood vessels that the soap passes through.
The earth made in imitation of the globe made in imitation of the earth.
Castrated socks. (Her name was words)
Anemia cells. your expression is also like the legs of a sparrow.
The enormous weight that drives itself toward the diagonal of the parallelogram.
The eastern autumn that welcomes the fragrance of coty unmoored from spring in marseille.
Mr. Z’s vehicle cruising the clear sky like a bird. It says Roundworm Medicine.
Rooftop garden. The young mademoiselle imitating a monkey.
The formula for a falling body speeding straight through the curved straight line.
Two wet bits of dusk pressed as xii on the dial.
The greeting from the fitted door from inside the canary in the birdcage in the door inside the door.
The male or female friends who arrive at the entrance to the cafeteria split apart.
A sugar cube with black ink spilled on it is carted atop a tricycle.
Military boots stepping on a business card. Fake nasturtium that runs through the town.
The people who went down from above and up from below and down from above and up from below are the people who did not go up from below nor down from above nor up from below nor down from above.
The bottom half of that woman is like the top half of that man. (I am one who mourns the chance meeting of sadness.)
A square case starts walking (that is a strange thing).
The goodbye that rises up near the radiator.
Rain outside. Group migration of luminescent fish.

Flowering Tree

On an open field      a flowering tree stands      with no other like it      nearby      the flowering tree blossoms with a burning heart      as if thinking of      another flowering tree      burns its heart.      The flowering tree cannot reach the tree flowering in its thoughts      I wildly fled      for the sake of      one flowering tree      I truly did such weird mimicry.


This year’s equinox, September 23rd, was also the 110th birthday of Yi Sang (1910-1937): the dark wizard, clown, and crown prince of modern Korean literature. Some still believe that his writings were the writings of a madman. Others think he was the greatest writer of his generation, if not of all Korean literature. No one denies his radicality, and Korean literature has not been the same since his meteoric passage.

Even though Yi Sang lived and wrote in a time and place vastly different from where I am, his evocations of a broken world and a soul struggling for freedom and beauty gave me clear reflections of my own heart’s fires. Long before I decided to translate him, the poem that made me fall in love with Yi Sang was his “Kkotnamu (꽃나무).” “Flowering Tree” in English.

This poem was the very first Korean poem of Yi Sang that was published. Eager to present his work to the public, in 1933 Yi Sang visited Korean poet Jung Jiyong with his manuscript. Jiyong was considered the foremost lyric poet of colonial Korea at the time, and when he read Yi Sang’s “Flowering Tree” and other pieces, he apparently looked up at Yi Sang and said, “How weird!” Then, he immediately published Yi Sang’s poems on the next issue of a magazine he edited. When an editorial assistant protested to Jiyong that this weird writing cannot be considered poetry, Jiyong is said to have replied, “It’s fine. Our country needs at least one person who writes such weird poems.”

Korea in 1930s was a colonized nation suffering under the Japanese imperial regime. Its poets and writers were constantly censored, jailed, tortured, and disappeared. Yi Sang came barreling into this scene with his surreal, confessional, experimental, and secretly political poems. The conditions of Yi Sang’s time are particular but not so long gone, and his language echoes with a ring of truth in our present moment, in both private and public spheres. In English, Joyelle McSweeney writes about her encounter with Yi Sang’s Flowering Tree:

Art’s erotic likenesses. The immobility of the tree is radiant; the tree is as much flaring as flowering and it drives the speaker to Art, the ‘weird mimicry,’ rare replications, the ultimate place, the mise en abyme, one guesses that he, too, is radiantly immobilized in fire like the tree.” (From “Afterword: Thirteen for Yi Sang, for Arachne, Joyelle McSweeney, Yi Sang: Selected Works, Wave Books, pg. 224)

There is not much more I can say that is not already captured in Joyelle’s words, other than perhaps to say somethings about how I translated this poem.

From the original, I translated the phrase “kŏsch'ŏlŏm (것처럼)” into English as “as if.” “As if” signifies the tree’s inner state (“as if thinking”) that motivates it to imitate an idea of a flowering tree. In the Korean original, all this motivation and thinking is connected to “yŏlsim (열심 熱心),” a word that I translated as “burning heart.” Yŏlsim is a case of hanja, like kanji in Japanese, where Literary Chinese characters are used as Korean vocabulary, and hanja words have implications in both meaning and imagery. Here, the characters that make up the word yŏlsim are “hot/heated/burning (熱),” pronounced yŏl, and “heart/mind (心),” pronounced sim. Together, yŏlsim customarily denotes passion, ardor, and other synonymous intense feelings. The word is most used when someone says that they will try or do their best.

What is strange about how Yi Sang uses this word is the unlikely grammatical ending he attaches to it. Usually, the ending “-hi” (-히) is attached to the word “yŏlsim,” which makes it an adverb: yŏlsimhi (열심히). But, Yi Sang uses the ending “-ŭlo” (-으로) instead, making it yŏlsimŭlo (열심으로). This declension turns any word it modifies into an adverb and makes that modified word the reason or the cause of other actions within the sentence. So, even though “yŏlsim” is almost always used as part of an adverbial phrase that describes emotional states, Yi Sang’s play with Korean grammar turns it into a conceptual noun that acts as the source of the flowering tree’s performance that defines its being. That is why, instead of translating it as “the flower tree is passionately flowering,” I went with “blossoming with a burning heart.”

When Yi Sang’s speaker says that fleeing “for the sake of a flower tree” was a “weird mimicry,” the speaker does not mean that he imitated how a tree blossomed for the sake of another flowering tree. The speaker is saying that he is imitating the tree’s “burning heart.”

The tree flowering “with a burning heart” (yŏlsimŭlo) is the only thing that the speaker sees, and “as if thinking of another flowering tree burns its heart” is the hypothesis the speaker makes to explain what he has seen. The speaker is thus suggesting that his fleeing is a “weird mimicry” of “burning heart,” and not the blossoming that this “burning heart” yields. The poem abruptly ends in this intensely heightened emotional state without any way for us readers to relieve the energy that we have accumulated from the experience.

That sensation for me is why I keep returning to Yi Sang—his words summon something from deep within me to clearly relive my unexpressed desires, and this in turn makes me want to live and flee wildly for their sake. His words ignite. Yi Sang expressed this vision of beauty during one of the darkest periods of Korean history. And he did all this as he was dying from tuberculosis. In our difficult time, I keep learning more from him than I ever did before. Yi Sang: Selected Works from Wave Books brings together his most essential works from variety of genres. Like his flowering tree that doubled in burning heart, I hope that this volume of translations will be a chance for new readers to encounter and explore their doubles in its pages.




